Kind: captions
Language: en
our darkest moment turned into our
life's mission. You sometimes don't see
the why when it's happening to you, but
something great can come out of the
darkest moments of your life. And we are
here as living proof. We didn't do any
paid media. It wasn't about fancy
seating boxes. It wasn't about like, you
know, the girl with like 2 million
followers. It was the doctors, the
doulas, the midwives, the people who are
experts in their field. word of mouth
through very trusted practitioners. Our
biggest PSA in creating weatal was that
you have a couple months both partners
to step up so you can show up knowing
you put your best foot forward.
This episode is brought to you by
Contentful Marketers. You know that
feeling when your creative clicks? When
that social post sends engagement
through the roof. When your outside of
the box campaign hits ROI positive. When
a personalized homepage turns prospects
into customers. It's utter marketing
bliss. Contentful helps you create
tailored omni channel experiences
without working overtime. No stress, no
limits, only possibilities. Get the
feels at contentful.com.
Vita, welcome to the DTOC podcast. I'm
really excited to uh connect again and
redisuss we natal and your your vision
there. Uh how you doing?
&gt;&gt; Great. Thanks for having me. Excited to
be here.
&gt;&gt; Okay. So let's t take us back to the
beginning. Why did you create we natal?
&gt;&gt; It's a great question and one I never
actually saw on my own road map. And so
what happened was Ron and I met in our
young early single days in our corporate
careers at Nike. I was a senior
marketing director. I grew up there. I
was there from an intern. And I spent 20
years at Nike perfecting like world
class events for athletes, marathons,
races, and thinking through like every
detail to make these athletes better and
stronger. And the irony is when me and
my husband wanted to start trying for a
baby. We literally skipped all the prep
that I knew was like appropriate for
anyone to do anything. And we literally
just went to like we're we're young,
we're healthy, we should just try. And
fast forward, I did get pregnant
actually around the time my best friend
Ron was having her first child. I was
past the first trimester when you're
told that it's safe. I told everybody,
went in for a routine checkup, and I
noticed my OB/GYN's face just drop. And
the room went silent, and I was waiting
to hear a heartbeat, and I saw him. And
sadly, I heard these words that like no
parent to be ever wants to hear. And he
just looked at me and said, "I'm so
sorry. There's no heartbeat." And I I
mean, the gut punch and the devastation
was so real. And really what he told me
was, "It's so common. just keep trying.
And I remember sobbing asking for like,
could it be because of this? Could it be
my work, my stress, the coffee? I too
much coffee. Like I ran through the
gamut. He just like said no to
everything. Was loving yet dismissive.
And he ushered me back through this
waiting room of all these glowing
bellies and I was just sent on my way.
And luckily for me, Ronit was like the
first person, my best friend I went
through. She had just had a baby girl.
So, forget the fact that it like
shattered all my dreams of having a kid
with my best friend and having maternity
leave together and like doing all the
things. She left Nike to work alongside
Dr. Mark Hyman, who's amazing big name
in functional medicine. And she
encouraged me to go on beyond what was
just showing up as normal, my normal
labs. My doctor kept assuring me, you
know, you're fine, you're fine. I dug
deeper because of her. I found out I
have Hashimoto's, which is a thyroid
disorder. I fixed up my eating. I
cleaned, added supplementation, added
some medication. I literally did all the
things and went on to have my healthy
baby girl, Dalia, who is now eight. And
I thought the nightmare was over. I
figured she taught me what I need to
know. I perfected my routine.
&gt;&gt; Fast forward to early 2020. We were
trying at the same time for our second
children and I went in for another
routine checkup only to get that same
devastating no heartbeat. and stopped
dead in my tracks for the second time,
but was again assured that this stuff
just happens and I didn't know better,
so I went along with it. The only thing
that changed this time is a week later,
Roique called me with the same outcome.
So there we were, two best friends who
had actually done all the things. We had
done all the things that people tell us.
We thought we had this perfect care
prenatal and we were, you know, two
losses, two best friends, zero
satisfying answers. There was literally
nothing. And she wasn't willing to
accept that. She's like, I'm not going
to try again unless you tell me there's
something I could do differently. And
so, she went into the research rabbit
hole. She started digging. And Eric, I
remember the day she called me when she
uncovered all this research and she
said, "Did you know men are 50% of
fertility outcomes and men are 50% of
miscarriages and pregnancy loss?" And
it's like so intuitive. It's the biggest
like duh, of course there we know it
takes two to make a baby. But yet I was
there with two losses. My husband was in
the room every single time. No one even
turned to him to ask him a single
question. And I know through all the
self-lame and the guilt and the doubt
that I had that I didn't it didn't even
dawn on me that a single thing that he
did could have caused this. And so while
it is so intuitive, it was mind-blowing
for us. And the additionally the
research showed that antioxidants,
highdose antioxidants could four to five
time improve the likelihood of men
helping their partners conceive and have
a healthy pregnancy. And so those two
pieces of research basically changed our
lives. We were like, "How could it be
that no one's talking about this? How
could it be that no men's prenatal
exists on the marketplace?" As all
founders say, there's a gap in the
marketplace. It was a personal journey
and that stopped us down our track. We
literally, our first concept was a men's
prenatal because no one was talking
about this. And then when we pulled back
the covers of the women's space, we
found that they all fell in two camps.
either super expensive, lot of capsules,
hard consumer experience, and you had to
get it like through a doctor's office,
or super accessible, maybe something you
could get at a convenient or a
drugstore, but the dosages were too low
to make a difference. The forms of the
ingredients were suboptimal. And then
there was a whole paragraph of like
additives, fillers, other junk that
should not be in your vitamins. And we
quickly realized, okay, we need to
reinvent this space. We actually need to
make this a great experience for both
partners. And given our background,
treat fertility like a team sport. One
in which we know like Eric, if you
decided to run a marathon, you wouldn't
sign up today and run tomorrow. You
would get the gear. You would get a
coach, a training plan, find the right
shoes, find the right apparel. You would
do the things so you show up on race day
and don't fall flat. And so our biggest
PSA in creating weatal was that you have
a couple months both partners to step up
and put your best foot forward so you
there's no guarantees in life but you
can show up with the best outcome and
show up knowing you put your best foot
forward. And so the impetus behind we
natal was to create the best supplements
that are clean that are third-party
tested which is a whole third party test
is a whole side note vitamins are the
wild wild west and there's no regulation
and also empower people with resources
education and empowerment which we
weren't given. We found it very
dismissive. We found fertility to be
this black box of misinformation.
&gt;&gt; Totally.
&gt;&gt; And that's essentially that was our why
and we haven't looked back since. Well,
thank you for sharing that. I share uh
you know some challenges in that space
and incredibly psychologically
uh you know traumatizing a little bit
that powerlessness feeling and
especially as the as the guy as well.
It's it's also interesting. I was
recently reading about uh saunas and
cold plunges and how we've just assumed
that they're good for everyone but in
but another study came out and really
drilled in on women and and saw in this
one particular study that cold plunges
were maybe uh not as good. There was the
the shocking aspect of it was bad for
some reasons, but it's just sort of like
a lot of medicine is done with like men
in mind and women are kind of an
afterthought in some ways. I've I've
heard that sentiment across the medical
system. So, it's interesting that what
you've done is kind of flipped it on its
head in a way where we put all this
focus on women, but but kind of let men
off the hook in a lot of ways. I think
this is changing. My friend just got a a
pair of underwear for his sauna that he
wears that has like cooler packs in it
to save for, you know, to like that's
the first product of its kind I've kind
of seen in that space.
&gt;&gt; Well, you're absolutely right. You know,
at Nike, we used to say brands shrink it
and pink it. There was like no thought
for the woman except like the color and
making it smaller. Our biochemistry is
different. Our anatomy is different.
Everything about us is different. Yet,
you're right, the research is not there.
And then for you're right, the irony is
that infertility the sole focus is on
the woman. What she ate, what she drank,
how she slept, you know, her physiology,
but yet literally the male is like in
most counts not even checked until maybe
a year of struggling or more. Maybe if
you're IVF, but also the stats are
alarming that 25% of couples going
through assisted reproductive
technology, the male partner isn't even
checked, which could take a whole
another podcast to say, okay, so you're
putting the wife or the the partner
through medicine, through expensive
procedures, painful procedures. It's not
100% foolproof, and you're not even like
looking at the meal to see if
potentially the other 50% could be
optimized. So there is so much education
that needs to happen in this world, but
we are seeing the tides flip a little
bit. We are seeing male fertility on the
forefront. I don't know if you saw
there's now like people racing people's
sperm against each other and it's like
sperm racers.
&gt;&gt; Oh, I did not see sperm racers.
&gt;&gt; I mean, I think it's fun because for men
it makes it competitive. I think for a
long time sperm was like shameful and
men didn't want to do these tests, but
now it's so accessible. It's a barometer
of your overall health. It is nothing
other than like blood work and you can
check your sperm sperm or semen to
actually just check biomarkers of your
longevity, your health. And what's so
cool for men is you guys are the
superheroes in this equation because
you're generating sperm every second of
the day. 1,500 sperm a second. And so in
about 72 days, about 3 months with diet,
with lifestyle, with these changes, you
could have a completely different
situation than what you started with. I
want to dive in your go to market a
little bit, but talk to me a little bit
about the the state of fertility in the
world. My my sense like almost everyone
I know uh having kids a little bit
later, but most of the people I know are
are going through different, you know,
being very conscious of their fertility.
Maybe they're they're they're using IVF
or but I think it was taken for granted
that you'd just be able to have a kid,
you know, and I think there's so many
people that it's a challenge for these
days.
&gt;&gt; Absolutely. So when we in 2020 when we
incepted we natal one in eight couples
were dealing with infertility and that's
a global issue. It is not something in
certain states in certain countries and
so certain socioeconomic statics. is a
global issue that's happening and when a
few short years later we launched two
years later it's now one in6 is what the
American health organization is saying
that is like literally we all know
somebody and what you realize is it's
multiaceted of course but our birth
rates are dropping below our replacement
rate so between every relationship if
you consider the the replacement rate is
2.1 and most countries now are falling
below 2.1 with like South Korea at 08 8.
The US is about 1.7. We are not making
more humans. So if you care about, you
know, the human population, we could be
an endangered species. We are not
growing at the rate. And there's some
alarming articles saying that like sperm
can be at zero by 2045, which is around
the corner. And so it is a global
fertility crisis. We're seeing
miscarriages on the rise. We're seeing
erectile dysfunction on the rise. We're
seeing all these issues. And of course,
the whole assisted reproductive
technology world is booming. It's a
multi-billion dollar organization and
one that people needed to be educated
and empowered and not just a crutch to
say like, "Oh, I tried. Let's go to
this." There are underlying issues and
that's why we actually just had a panel
with Dr. Natalie Crawford and she said
so beautifully that health and fertility
are handinand. It is one biioarker of
your health. And so it's not okay just
like, oh, when we want to have kids,
let's turn on the fertility check mark.
These are things that we all should be
doing. Nourishing ourselves, movement,
prioritizing sleep, cleaning your home
of toxins, all these things are
parameters for call it longevity, call
it overall wellness, and fertility. And
so we'd like to like people to
understand that it's important no matter
what stage of life you're in. And if
you're ever wanting to consider
children, this problem of this toxic
soup we're living in is sadly helping
the world get more infertile and we need
to do something about it.
&gt;&gt; Entrepreneurs always do better when they
have like a real challenge they're
cracking when yours is like the
continuation of the species. It must be
extra motivating.
&gt;&gt; Extra. And listen, like ours came from
heartbreak and loss. And yeah,
&gt;&gt; you know, I I literally was just telling
a friend like while that was like the
most devastating moment of my life, I'm
so grateful for the those two little
souls that came into me and Ron's world
because if they didn't come for that
short time and if we didn't have those
losses a week apart, we may never have
created Weinatal. And oh, by the way,
we're over 30,000 families that we've
supported to becoming parents. We've
gotten baby shower invites and
ultrasound pictures and literally our
darkest moment turned into our life's
mission.
&gt;&gt; And I share that only to say that like
you sometimes don't see the why when
it's happening to you. You sometimes
really question and doubt. But something
great can come out of the darkest
moments of your life. And we are here as
living proof. And we have now, to your
point, helped thousands and tens of
thousands of babies being born, which
the reason we're in this global
