Kind: captions
Language: en
The only way [music] to achieve
greatness is to see the fear and do it
anyway. Six years ago, we had this crazy
idea. We created these [music] vitamin
routines for specific hormonal life
stages. One of your products is being
consumed every second. What was that
early foundational stuff that you were
doing to like get [music] that traction
going? I
&gt;&gt; mean, our first year marketing budget,
we had $10,000.
&gt;&gt; Are you working with a lot of
influencers? Pull up a chair. So,
[music] here we go. Hey, business
besties. Welcome back to Female Found
World. It's Jasmine. I'm the host of the
show and today I'm chatting with Alex
Taylor, the co-founder [music] of
Parallel. Welcome. Thank you for having
me. For people that don't know Parallel,
what are you guys doing? [music]
&gt;&gt; We make targeted vitamin solutions for
each stage of a woman's hormonal journey
and we are founded by doctors and moms
as well. For you, co-founders, I
co-ounded the business with a woman
named Tori. She has a background in
finance and operations. And then my
other co-founder is Dr. Biotti. She is a
OBGYn on the west side here in LA with a
very holistic bend to her practice. And
in addition to my co-founders, we have a
founding team of medical adviserss that
also weigh in on all of our formulations
as well as our education and our
product.
&gt;&gt; Amazing. I want to kick off with some
milestones but to help people understand
what it is that you've built because
you've been around for only a few years.
Three years. Is that right?
&gt;&gt; Five years.
&gt;&gt; Five years. Okay. Five years, which is
still like pretty young.
&gt;&gt; And now you're selling one or one
parallel capsule is consumed every
second.
&gt;&gt; Yes.
&gt;&gt; That's wild. It's wild. I still pinch
myself when I hear that stat. It feels
completely surreal because, you know, 6
years ago we had this crazy idea and
obviously took about a year to get it
off the ground and now 5 years in as of
just a few days ago. It's just
unbelievable what we've created and it's
really a testament to our team and
finding a product that really met the
market in a moment when women wanted
something more comprehensive and
something they could trust. take us back
to those those early days of starting
the business.
&gt;&gt; I got the entrepreneurial bug very
early. I knew early on that I wanted to
start something after having been at a
startup and selling the business and
being part of that and seeing the
excitement but also the ability to shape
and build brands. At the time, who wear
was about 20 employees and it was a
daily newsletter very similar to like
daily candy. Talk about a throwback.
Mhm. So, it was a daily newsletter,
shopping focused, and I came in and had
a vision that this should be a
fullyfledged digital publishing empire,
and there's so much we can do here. And
so, I joined the business, became the
president and executive editor-inchief
over all of the entities that would
later come to life. So that included
birdie domain. We had a Gen Z
publication and then we eventually
launched a consumer goods division which
I was at the helm of as well where we
started to develop products really
leveraging all the information and data
that we got from our editorial content.
I ran the business helped spearhead all
the fundraising efforts. I learned so
much but I was very young in a very
elevated role. I was very aware of what
I didn't know and I was very conscious
of the fact that I was very young
&gt;&gt; and I was always a little insecure about
that and so I got myself a coach and put
some proverbial rings on my tree just to
learn how to lead as a young person
&gt;&gt; and it was one of the best investments
I've made. I he introduced so many
wonderful practices to my life from not
only how I show up with my team and
really helping me fight back against
that imposttor syndrome but he
introduced meditation to me and just so
many tools that I use now. So, as I was
running that business, I was being
honored on the Forbes 30 under 30 list.
And I only share that because I was
there and I broke out in shingles and I
was 28 at the time
&gt;&gt; and not
&gt;&gt; I also got shingles at 28.
&gt;&gt; You did? Yeah. We need I want to hear
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; We need to do a separate podcast where I
all about you cuz I hate talking about
myself. [laughter]
Um but I broke out in shingles and um I
also started to feel not at home in my
body. It was the
&gt;&gt; I know that sounds crazy to say but it
is a very real feeling and I was
suddenly lethargic. I was really foggy.
I just didn't feel good. And also my
doctors were like you're 28 you should
not have shingles. Like you're fully you
know this is this doesn't make sense. So
this set me off on a journey. And now
looking back, hindsight, you always have
such clarity. But at the time, I was
like, what is this mess of life I'm in?
You know, I'm I've hit my stride in my
career. I'm at the top of my game. Here
I am being honored. Like, what's going
on? Why is my body failing me when I
need it most? And after nine different
doctors and nearly a year of various
appointments, I was finally diagnosed
with an autoimmune disease. And you
know, autoimmune disproportionately
affects women. about 80% of cases are in
women. Why? We don't know because
women's health is vastly underresarched,
which now I do a lot of advocacy work
in. And this autoimmune disease would
later shape my fertility journey,
increase my rate of potential
miscarriage significantly, among other
things. It would shape my pregnancy, my
postpartum, and open my eyes to
something that I just couldn't unsee.
And through that journey of seeing all
of these different practitioners and
physicians to help me care for myself, I
started to piece together this crazy
vitamin routine. You know, when I was
optimizing for my fertility journey, I
was taking NAC and CoQ10 and a great
prenatal. And then once I became
pregnant, oh, you're building the, you
know, the neural tube in the early days,
you need more folic acid, less later.
So, I just had this experience where I
was piecing together this routine
constantly. And it was just also really
haphazard experience you know it was the
time um I was it was like 2017 2018 when
I was starting this journey was like you
can have anything delivered in 20
minutes and yet why is it so damn hard
to take care of myself with my
autoimmune disease what I learned was
that it was self-induced
by stress
and the lesson here to learn is that no
job is worth your health. No job doesn't
matter how great it looks on the
outside. At the end of the day, what is
critical is your health and the richness
of your relationships.
And that was such an eyeopening
experience for me as I don't want to say
I was a girl boss because I don't think
I was [laughter] I don't think I was
like a terrible person by per se. I know
they have there's a whole wrap there,
but like I was working really hard. I
was the girl waking up at 5:30 doing
Soul Cycle, drinking my lemon water. I
mean like the whole trope.
&gt;&gt; Mhm.
&gt;&gt; And what I realized is like that's not
happiness. And my god, I jeopardized my
health, like my potential unborn child,
my future for a job,
what was I thinking? And so it was a
really eye opening experience. And so
from there, I decided I needed to make
some changes. So upon my diagnosis, my
physician told me, "You have to do three
things." He said, "First of all, reduce
your stress."
Lol. I'm a millennial. I can still say
it. Like, what are you talking about?
What do you mean reduce my stress? Like,
I'm just a stress person. But I had to
take that seriously and I had to think
about what could I tangibly change to
support myself. Maybe I shouldn't be
doing highintensity workouts every
single day and pumping my cortisol. I
have to think like when I look at
Jenzie, I'm like, you guys have no idea
how how good you have it with this like
Pilates matcha situation. It's so good
and so healthy and balanced. We Yeah, we
definitely had it the other way.
&gt;&gt; Pushing ourselves every day.
&gt;&gt; It was wild.
&gt;&gt; Um, and that's like another can of worms
like culturally like how women believe
they do have to subscribe to that type
of energy and mindset.
&gt;&gt; But at any rate, the other two things
you told me to change were um to reduce
my stress, I had to start taking a
medication. Fine. Okay, great. And then
the third thing was they recommended
that I become gluten-free because
essentially in very layman's terms like
my thyroid was attacking itself and
there's some associations between gluten
and I won't go down that rabbit hole but
at any rate I made those three changes
and I committed I changed my job. I went
over to Urban and I joined Urban. But
while I was there, I had my first born,
my son. And um I just couldn't get it
out of my head that I wanted to start
something. As a new mom, I felt failed,
confused, frustrated. There were a few
different ideas I had in mind, but I
wasn't quite sure where it was. So, you
know, I think a lot of people when they
want to start something, well, what do I
start? And, you know, it's pretty wild,
but the universe will unfold and show
you.
&gt;&gt; I know that sounds crazy, but you know,
it it really did. And so as I was
talking to lots of people about these
different ideas that I had, a friend of
mine that I'd met who who was a VC said,
you know, I'm talking to another woman
who's kind of circling the same drain.
She wants to do something in this space
and she has completely different skill
set than you. You guys should brilliant.
And I was like, okay, like blind date.
Love it. She set us up on a blind date
and I show up and I was uh I had my son
was very young. I was still nursing him.
So I was like, "Okay, I got 45 minutes.
You got to get home and pump or feed the
baby." We um started to meet weekly and
just start to dream and think about what
could we create? Where is their white
space? What's needed? What were our own
personal challenges? And as we started
to talk more, I shared more about my
background and my experience. She
brought in her own very different
experience in terms of why she felt
frustrated in the vitamin aisle. And
when we came together, we thought, wait
a minute, there's such an opportunity to
reinvent this category and reinvent it
from the ground up built by women that
really understand what we as patients
and consumers need and want and expect,
but also can we partner with the doctors
and experts that know best. So together
we created these vitamin routines, full
vitamin routines that are made for
specific hormonal life stages. So we
started in the prenatal vitamin category
and then we expanded to support her from
menarchy. And so if people don't know
what menarchy, that's actually when you
start your period through menopause. And
so we've created these vitamin routines
that are created by our doctors. They
put together the latest research, their
clinical insights, and they craft a
routine that not only includes your
standard multivitamin or prenatal
vitamin, but additionally, what critical
supplements do you need during that
stage to optimize your health goal,
whether it be fertility or support that
hormonal stage that you're occupying?
&gt;&gt; I want to talk about the early days of
the business that
&gt;&gt; what you did in those first couple of
years to get the traction that then
later built this business where one of
your products is being consumed every
second. So much power is in the
pre-work.
You know, the the work that is even done
before you're in market and that's
really about a we knew we were entering
a highly commoditized category. So, how
can we differentiate? And for us, we
knew that opportunity was through a
powerful brand. Not just any brand, but
I believe powerful brands are brands
that are identity brands. Brands that
give someone a sense of place in the
world. People want to feel seen. We vote
with our wallets and we use brands to
communicate who we are. I mean, I'm sure
many of your listeners can look at their
vanity and proudly say like
&gt;&gt; this is me. I use say and I love summer
Fridays and I use herbivore botanicals
or whatever it might be and that says
something about them. That's so
powerful. You know, you think of someone
who walks around holding a MacBook
laptop that says I'm creative. You know,
whereas someone who's riding a
Harley-Davidson is I'm a badass. Like
it's incredible how we as humans use
brands to signal who we are and express
ourselves. It's beautiful. And we
thought no one's done that in this
category of women's health, specifically
vitamins. And what an opportunity. How
can we make this woman feel seen and
supported and really make her feel proud
to be part of something? So in those
early days there was a lot of pre-work
done on what the brand is, what is the
brand identity, what is our values, how
is the brand expressed, what is our
voice and tone, how do we differentiate
ourselves from other brands in the space
visually as well as tonally through our
voice that we're very proud of. So there
was a lot of work done and we put
together a pretty rigorous brand book
which is really where I thrive and I
love to spend a lot of my time in
defining. So we did that and then we
stepped back and thought about what can
only we do
and when we think about the skill sets
that we have you know what can only the
brand do from where does the brand have
authority and credibility to be based on
this structure we've established but
also you know between my co-founder
myself what are the skills that we have
that we can uniquely bring to this
business what can only we do and my
background as you know is in editorial
and brand building and content and
community. And so we said, let's lean
into that. We also saw there was just
such a gap. Women want to know more
about their bodies. While there's a lot
we don't know about women's bodies with
the wealth of knowledge we do have, how
can we bring that forward? And so we did
a lot of content development in those
early days. We launched our Instagram.
We had a pretty robust blog. We really
tapped the top experts and voices in
women's health or people that even had
their own personal story and
contextualize it through a medical
narrative
&gt;&gt; and we brought that forth. And so we
thought about it content was like our
proverbial campfire
&gt;&gt; and if we could use that campfire to
have people gather around it. We
naturally create community and we were
talking about this a little earlier
before we started recording, but when
you sit shoulderto-shoulder with someone
and you're learning something and you're
invested, there's also this janicequa,
like this connection that you build that
