Kind: captions
Language: en
You're projected to do over 25 million
this year. The product opportunity is
make great [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] products that work
because people aren't doing that. Our
customers leave us these life-changing
reviews. Like absolutely life-changing
reviews. We're joined by Dan Murray, who
is founder of Heights. Yeah, I feel like
Heights is a veteran of the DC game.
&gt;&gt; From the outside, what is the founders's
unfair advantage?
&gt;&gt; In my experience, I had insomnia and I
was immediately given sleeping pills and
told to just [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] off. Maybe something
that I picked up on from yourself is
your ability to build relationships.
&gt;&gt; How have you found the impact of those
celebrity engagements?
&gt;&gt; It's absolutely authentic customer.
Nothing is more important than someone
being able to talk about their personal
experience using your product. Steven
Fry was our first customer, first order.
Steven Bartlett was in our first 100
orders. From the outside, it looks very
intentional that you have almost
bucketed these personas that you've been
able to extract through these
celebrities. You've recently raised 2
million pounds at a 60 million pound
valuation. I saw you post something
about you could have raised at100
million pound valuation. I love the
vulnerability to talk about this which
is something I've never really seen and
spoken about online.
&gt;&gt; Actually, we did have two years of flat
growth, but those two things made an
enormous impact.
&gt;&gt; Welcome back to another episode of DTC
Diaries. We were just saying before we
started that we're a little bit rusty
cuz we've been in the trenches during
Q4. So, uh the the last few episodes you
would have seen will have been batch,
but we're joined by Dan Murray who is
founder of Heights. Uh one of the brands
that uh we've we've been lucky enough to
work with ourselves. I think you're
you're projected to do over 25 million
this year. I feel like you're really
redefining
uh you know what it means to build a
sciencebacked premium wellness product
in such a saturated space. You're also a
serial entrepreneur uh angel investor.
Dan, welcome to the show.
&gt;&gt; Thank you. Thanks guys. Nice to be here.
&gt;&gt; Excited to have you on. Also the most
experienced podcaster in the room as we
were saying before we started. Um, yeah.
I feel like Heights is like you're like
a veteran of the DC game if that's a
thing.
&gt;&gt; Feels like it now. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; I feel like you guys was it 2018 Rand?
&gt;&gt; Well, 2019 we really got into what we
want to make and how to make it. 2020 we
launched
&gt;&gt; 2020. But even that from a DC
perspective feels like a long time.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, it's interesting, isn't it?
&gt;&gt; Probably seen a lot of different
permutations of the market. you've been
through the co roller coaster, come out
the other side and obviously now
&gt;&gt; um growing I'm assuming faster than ever
based on what we're seeing in the in the
media and some of the things that have
been going on for you guys.
&gt;&gt; Um so really excited to kind of dive
into that to that journey and
&gt;&gt; um some of the fundraising, some of your
your growth and how your role maybe has
changed in in the business. But as with
most guests, want to start with a bit of
like context on the backstory. Maybe
like a 2 to 3 minute um if it's possible
to cram it into that time.
&gt;&gt; I can try.
&gt;&gt; Um yeah. How the brand how did the brand
come to be? What was the idea? What was
the um what led to its inception?
&gt;&gt; So uh my business partner Joel and I
were running a previous business before
called Grabble. Um it was a hyperrowth
classic VC startup. uh millions of
users, great go great great highs, lots
of awards, won an award from the queen,
like all sorts of awesome [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] and then
it failed and so we were like depressed
and embarrassed and thought obviously
that probably been focusing on the wrong
things. Um and uh the
like during the experience like we both
ended up with quite bad mental health
problems. I think generally it comes
from working so hard, maybe having the
wrong influences around you in terms of
like the hustle grind culture mentality.
Um, and taking it really to the nth
degree. So like no time off, no breaks,
no nothing, no relationships, nothing
other than just each other, the team,
early mornings, late nights, like you
know, living in the office, like all of
the really genuinely incredibly
stereotypical things. Like lived through
all of them. We did all of them. Um, and
it was [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] great. like I loved it
and I have like no regrets. Um just
would have been nice to have a great
outcome from it all. Um but over the
period I I picked up insomnia. Um so I
had insomnia for 6 months. Joel had
really terrible gut health issues. Um we
uh it's interesting. If you have gut
health issues, you go to the doctor, the
doctor um immediately knows two things.
One, it could be stress. It's quite
commonly known. And two, and it probably
is because he's explaining his
lifestyle. um and two um that you need
to go and see a like nutritionist or
dietitian because it's your stomach,
it's your gut, it's very obvious it's
food, it's all related in my case. So he
went and did that and and he got
supplements to help and put through a
process and like really started to
understand like gut health and learn
about it through his own experience,
right? In my experience, I had insomnia
and so I was immediately given sleeping
pills and told to just [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] off. Um and
uh and then when it didn't go away, I
was like, "Okay, well then maybe you got
a mental health problem. Go see a
psychologist. Go see a psychologist. Um
go do like sleep apnoa like this stuff
inside a hospital so that we can watch
you." Like all of this stuff that you do
and none of it worked. And then after 6
months a friend said, um, "Have you been
to see a dietitian?" And I was like,
"Why would I go and do that? Like you
know that's for gut health, right?
That's what Joel's doing." Uh no, no, I
mean you've tried everything else. Like
maybe you should go and do that. And I
did. And the dietitian was immediately
because I was able to say, "Listen, it's
been 6 months. I've tried all of these
psychological interventions." She very
simply was like, "It's probably a
nutritional intervention." Like, "Your
brain is an organ. You're right. This is
probably a biological challenge." And
the reason I think that is because
you've just told me all of the
psychological things that you've tried
that haven't made a dent. So, let's try
something else. And so, she just
recommended supplements. She said, "You
got to get uh DHA, omega-3, B vitamin
complex, and blueberry extract cuz it's
an antioxidant." Um, I was like, "Great.
I'll go to Holland and Barrow and get
these things." She was like, "Well, you
can't go there. Actually, you have to go
to Planet Organic or Whole Foods to get
these supplements because that's the
only places you'll find them in the
right doses." And I was like, "Maybe
you're not listening to my story. I'm
run a startup. Like, I do not shop in
Planet Organic. That's not my vibe." And
she's like, "Well, you can't get that on
the high street. Those quality doses
don't exist." And so, interestingly, I I
found these two things really
interesting. Like one, what? I did not
know that. That makes no sense. And two,
um, okay, let me try this. Anyway, I
went to Planet Organic in Camden Town.
Still had the receipts. This is how I
got Planet Organic founder to invest in
our in our first round actually cuz I I
kept the receipts and showed her what we
were making and my original story. Um,
and so I spent £120 on three supplements
and took them home and within a couple
of nights I had my first full night's
sleep and was kind of mind blown because
this was so obvious to one medical
health professional um, and so clear and
so obvious and I started to become
really interested in the science but
then also this inkling that she'd said
which is like you can't go to the high
street, you have to go to these fancy
stores and I was just like I don't
understand this and as the more I
researched supplements the more I
realized that um, it's a really
interesting space where there's an
unusual brand opportunity space, right?
There's a product opportunity and
there's a brand opportunity. And the
product opportunity is make great
[&nbsp;__&nbsp;] products that work because
people aren't doing that because it's a
race to the bottom in this space. And
then two, the marketing challenge is
actually that whatever you do, you can
only make the same marketing claims as
everyone else. So the best product in
the world can only say the same thing as
the worst product in the world. So
there's an enormous brand marketing
comm's opportunity. If you have to
remove claims, remove the ability to
tell people the thing that you do that's
better than anyone else. If you can't do
that, there's an amazing marketing
challenge which if you could nail and
felt like nailing it would come from
having a great product, you would be
able to elevate yourself amongst the
category cuz everyone still has to play
the same game. So these two things, they
really combined. with Joel's interest in
gut health, my interest in like well
really originally mental health around
um supplementation and nutrition. We
were both like there seems like an
opportunity here and and and got to work
in a space that we knew nothing about.
Neither of us had ever taken supplements
or had any interest in this space at
all. So it was quite an unusual start.
That wasn't 3 minutes. But you got you
got an edit button. So you do what you
like.
&gt;&gt; It's a good synopsis though. Um I think
you're another example. We talk about
this with with a few of the founders
that come on. you the example of
creating a product or a brand to solve a
problem that you
&gt;&gt; totally
&gt;&gt; had yourself which I think
&gt;&gt; I think that's common for for a lot of
the best brands that we've either had or
we work with it has that like genuine
appreciation for the problem how that
shows yeah authenticity how that shows
up
&gt;&gt; in someone's life that's not just like
tiredness
&gt;&gt; I agree I think there's three types of
founders there's the founder that has a
problem that they want to solve there's
the founder who's a great [&nbsp;__&nbsp;]
management consultant and understands
graphs and understands where there's an
opportunity to build something new,
which is very common in D2C as well, by
the way. Um, and then there's like
someone who just wants to do something
in AI because everyone else is doing it
right now.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Interesting. I was whilst you were
talking through that around like solving
um like a psychological issue with with
supplementation. It reminded me of I
read a tweet from this guy called George
Mack who wrote
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I love George.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, he's great. He wrote I think he
was like fix hardware, sleep, exercise,
diet or power adapter environment before
software psychology. It's like a lot of
people jump when the when the um feeling
like psychologically stressed to that
like psych psychological fix rather than
looking at those fundamental inputs into
the engine the body. I mean, I sell
supplements and whenever any anyone asks
me my top health tips, I literally say
the same things, which is like go for a
walk and get 8 hours of sleep.
&gt;&gt; If that doesn't work, yeah, there's
other things, but like if you don't
start there, then there's no point. Like
there really isn't. And you know, it's
very similar to people who um you know,
you want to build muscle and people
don't understand this and like in the
gym space, but it's a bit like you want
to build muscle, so you just start
taking loads of creatine. It's like,
well, have you tried upping your protein
first? Like you don't jump straight to
creatine, you do like these steps. Have
you tried going into a gym and lifting
weights cuz just just drinking loads of
protein isn't going to help you? You
know, it's just like you got to take
these logical steps and they do start at
very simple stuff and people skip the
simple stuff and they go straight to
this extreme
&gt;&gt; especially in this this world we live in
now where it's you know this this almost
revolution of biohacking and
&gt;&gt; well this is very relevant. So um sorry
for hijacking this this part but this is
super relevant for how we started. So
obviously I'd had my personal experience
of what this dietitian had told me to
take. However, there's still this thing
where in 2019
um looking at market trends, looking at
what people do and stuff, everyone is
telling us like new tropics is going to
be huge. So build new tropics. It's
trendy. It's exciting. Your Chris
Williamsons and stuff like that, you
know, they all love it. Like you know,
that's the thing to do. And for us, we
were always like, okay, but it's a
perfect example like neutropics is like
this little sprinkling on top of all of
the other things. And actually, we'd
both had pretty serious health issues
because we were nutritionally underfed
&gt;&gt; of core basics. So, it's not [&nbsp;__&nbsp;]
exciting to say, have you got your
vitamin D? Have you got your omega-3s?
Have you got this? This stuff isn't sexy
at all. Everyone's been telling you to
do this since the 1970s. However, no
one's doing it really exceptionally well
and packaging that up together into
something really, really clear and
concise and [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] cool and brilliant
and powerful. But if you look at the
science, that's way more effective to
most people than any neutropic you'll
ever have, like ever. Because most
people are not getting the vitamins and
nutrition that they need on a core
basis. Full stop. So, it is like being
able to separate the noise of what
everyone's saying is exciting and
actually be like, I know this stuff
isn't exciting, but it's actually what
people need. Yeah, it's like trying to
paint the bedroom before before you
built the house, right? Totally. It's
like you need to do the fundamental
first. Totally. Um
&gt;&gt; I wanted to just touch on um you
mentioned your lived experience in your
previous business, the burnout, the
mental health that led to the creation
of Heights.
Um, do you think that's also then
translated to how you run the business
functionally and how you how you your
relationship with the business looks
relative to your previous
&gt;&gt; um yeah I look I mean no no one's in the
office past six but that isn't because
we don't think they should. If you're
listening you should. What the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] you
doing?
Um but um I
do you know what we started I'd love to
I'd love to give some sound bite that
made me sound like an amazing boss but
you know we started in the pandemic um
and so in reality you know we
we probably you know the actually the
main thing that we did end up working
out is that we had people in different
time zones because we're working in the
