Kind: captions
Language: en
Hi everyone, my name is Jacen. I'm a CTO
and a co-founder at Stellaroft. Today
I'm joined by Anina Kissner, uh CEO of
Bear with Benefits, a Germany based
brand, beauty supplements brand that's
rethinking about the how vitamins look,
feel, and uh taste and how they fit into
the real life. uh you stepped in uh to
the CEO role earlier this year from
after leading the strategy and uh brand
um at beer with beers with benefits and
uh you've got quite a bit of experience
corporate experience from Hen and Laurel
as far as I uh saw. Um, we'll try to
dive into that a little bit more, see
what you think about the future, how you
think um, about your new role, what
challenges you've got, and what your
vision is like for 2026 and beyond.
Welcome to the show, Anina.
&gt;&gt; Thank you for having me. Very excited to
be here.
&gt;&gt; Absolutely. Sounds good. So, let's start
uh, very easy with this. uh given that
you've been with bear with benefits
bears with benefits for over a year now
maybe like one and a half years so far
but then you only stepped into the CEO
role earlier this year can you tell us
uh what changed the most for you
personally from the moment you took on
took on the CEO role
&gt;&gt; yeah sure I think I mean overall it's a
very exciting uh adventure uh like I
mean in general moving into a new role
growing personally
but also with the brand and with the
company. I think um we as a company are
now 7 years old. So it have been has
been a a very um strong growth period
startup period for the first four to
five years and I think over the last two
it has become more um yeah a bit more
stable. I think we're still a lot uh
still a little startup in many ways but
in others also not. So I think bridging
this uh has for sure also been my
biggest challenge as you said I've been
into very different corporate setups
before. Um true I worked also at L'Oreal
in the beginning of my career but I
spent most of uh my working time
actually in management consulting at
McKenzie where I saw obviously mostly
very big companies from the inside and
um I think these learnings structures
processes that you that I have seen
there bringing them to a smaller company
of course not in the same way because
it's absolutely not possible um but
looking at like what can we leverage
from uh larger corporations that we need
now in terms of like processes when
we're growing up as a brand is the I
think most important thing and also
challenge for me.
&gt;&gt; Cool. Sounds good. And u you're right
these companies are quite large and uh
you could have uh seen many different
habits and like processes that these
companies possess internally. Um c can
you recall something like as far as
habits go like what did you do what do
you still utilize in your day-to-day
today like what corporate habits um you
use and still help you today and what
did you have to unlearn
&gt;&gt; um that do not really work in smaller
companies. Yeah, sure. I think one
that's for sure not a corporate practice
but a consulting practice is active
problem solving how we call it uh
McKenzie. It's basically that um you
kind of like evolve a problem to a
certain level um and then bring it to
the group that is concerned with that.
So the stakeholders usually that are
relevant for that. um and then actively
discuss solution spaces together and
then come up in the end with a certain
outcome or solution or at least way to
go. And I think um in consulting you
learn that it's a pretty um efficient
method to iterate and find solutions
very fast. Um and it's not this like
isolated working on a problem um for a
maybe a longer time before presenting or
showing the solution to someone. And I
think this like very iterative and
active proactive problem solving
approach is for sure something that I I
kept and u I always also encourage um my
teams to work in this uh in this way.
Not saying that you should bring every
problem to the table before you have
thought about it yourself, but really
try to leverage group thinking and
intelligence um together and actively
discuss problems to find solutions and
move forward faster than um like in
comparison to uh working on the perfect
solution that anyways never exist for
two weeks alone and then trying to
present it. So I think this more
collaborative problem solving approach
is super key element for my uh working
style still and maybe something that I
for sure not doing anymore or what is
has changed a lot.
I think you see in like large
corporations um a lot of time spent on
actually very administrative stuff. Um
trying to find meeting slots with
certain groups, trying to align for
alignment meetings um and like
navigating a very polit political
landscape in the end. And I mean of
course with a certain size you need also
these processes in smaller companies but
I try really to have them as uh low as
possible and as u like to really not try
to start implementing roots that are
let's align before an alignment meeting
and really avoid anything that is around
okay let's spend too much time on
administrative internal logistics works
um but be more efficient on that and be
very close also I mean I think this also
why I'm a big fan of like working
together in one office because naturally
weights are shorter and you are easier
in collaborating and not building up
weird um political barriers or
hierarchical barriers.
&gt;&gt; Cool. Okay. And uh so you mentioned
something important before um I think it
was either in private chat or I saw it
somewhere in the posts that visibility
creates opportunities and like from the
SEO CEO perspective um
why do you think it is important for the
for the people to stay in the office? Is
it like um like faster is it about
faster decisions, better solutions like
that you can think about those problems
with the team, brainstorm them, stronger
ownership of the team, uh better
communication between departments kind
of like can you unveil that unveil that
for us?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, sure. I think it's uh three three
main things. So I think the first is for
sure um learning curve especially for um
team members that haven't been working
for super long. We are very young
company. So in terms of like average age
of our employees so I think the learning
curve like also when I look back at my
first days of working when there was
basically no remote work not that I'm so
old but still it was very different. The
home office didn't exist in my first
years of working. I think the learning
curve of people like just starting their
careers is just a very different one
sitting alone at home with your task and
maybe you are more efficient sometimes
on your task at home but you don't like
have this natural uh observation of like
what else is going on what are other
people doing um learning from other
teams without actually working with
them. It all happens way more naturally
when you're in the office and also like
with your uh plus one plus two if you do
these like meetings in person like also
what I said in terms of like problem
solving um catch them for a minute to
just like bounce an idea these things
they become way more difficult I think
in um remote setups I mean I'm also a
fan of flexible working that you have a
day here and there where you work from
somewhere else great but it's in general
I think learning curve wise a very
favorable for everyone to um be also in
the office and with the people that you
want to learn from in the end. I think
the second point is and this is I think
very specific also for the industry. Um
we as an e-commerce T2C brand are a very
marketing at the core organization. The
marketing team is the biggest team of
our organization and we need to have
creative drive and innovation to to grow
the company and the brand and creativity
is difficult to achieve alone in your
home. Um and this is something that
happens between people when you have an
idea and the other one adds on top and
so on. So I think creative work really
profits a lot from being in person and
um yeah discussing ideas. I think that's
the second point. Um and for me the
third point it's really a cultural one.
I think a company culture and like being
a team that wants to achieve something
together um gets way more strong like
way stronger if uh you have a lot of
touch points in person. You experience
things together, good things and bad
things happening across a day, across a
week and you live through them as a team
and not on your own at home.
&gt;&gt; For sure. Yeah. And there is actually a
very good expression about uh the later
point. Um it's about decisions work uh
really well when the teams are close to
each other especially in the strong
growth phase. Um like if we were to
describe beers with benefits um growth
phase at this point what would you say
you are in right now? What is the phase
that you are in right now?
&gt;&gt; In phase in terms of what
&gt;&gt; in terms of the growth growth phase
&gt;&gt; growth ah yeah um yeah I think um what
is super interesting about our brand is
that we have like focused a lot on
international expansion over the last
years. So this is also why parts of our
business are in a different growth phase
than others. Um we have two very big
countries Germany and Italy. These are
our two biggest ones and they have now
like I think reached a stage where it's
more like sustainable stable growth. Um
but we have our new markets um
Netherlands, France, Spain but also
since this year the US where it's really
exponential growth where we really try
to every month at ideally double our
sales and I think uh they are I mean of
course on a way smaller scale still but
of course in these ways they also need a
different treatment. um you go way more
for like um brand equity awareness
elements now also in countries that are
already bigger um while you're really
pushing the growth playbook and the
smaller countries also in a very
localized way because they also work
very differently especially now that
we're in the US we also realize how many
regional differences uh we need to cater
to um but um I think that's it's a very
rare case there are not many um
supplement brands that actually manage
uh regional footprint and international
footprint in the end like we do like
mostly it's um local heroes companies
that have a very successful business
case in one country and maybe sometimes
expand to one or two more but how we
have done it now that we are present in
eight and growing um to more countries I
think it's really unique and this is
also determining a lot our growth growth
strategy in the end our growth stage and
um this is e-commerce only. Of course,
we have also different um channels. Um
we have also retail channels that we are
then building up in the countries where
we already reach a certain maturity
stage. And this is then of course then
growth that is more happening then more
on the omni channel side versus the D2C
side.
&gt;&gt; Okay. And you're a Germany based uh
brand initially, correct?
&gt;&gt; Yes. So uh c can you walk us through
maybe like you you haven't been uh with
uh BB uh before um before and at those
stages but then can you tell us a little
bit more and walk us through the
experience of how you choose the next
country you'd like to be present at
given that Germany and then the next one
was Italy but then what was the decision
making process to to to choose Italy as
the next country? Yeah, sure. I mean,
Italy actually happened quite
organically. We had a lot of inbound
from Italian influencers asking if they
can test our products. Um, and we gave
them the products to test and they
talked about with their community about
them and then they try to order them
from Germany and this is okay for a
certain time but you realize quite
quickly that's gets too expensive if you
continue like this. So at that point we
decided okay that must be some kind of
demand interesting demand um also from
Italy. So um we moved there but this was
really out of inbound interest in the
end.
&gt;&gt; Mhm. Uh but seeing that and how it also
worked um it was kind of like a next
clear thought on the road map that it
would also be interesting to explore
other countries if we have now managed
to be quite on a similar scale in from
the outside quite different countries
with Germany and Italy. So we thought
okay then if this is working then maybe
also other southern European countries
are working that are close and maybe
also other countries that are close to
Germany like the Netherlands are working
well um that have a kind of like
cultural proximity. So with this we also
decided kind of like what are our
expansion countries and moved into them.
I mean, we're also in Switzerland. It's
for most German brands like this because
they it's also of course um language
wise quite close. Um but this is like
basically how we choose then Spain,
France and Netherlands as um expansion
countries to grow to also belong we
belong as a brand to a French group. Um
that's Javier which is also a European
leader in um supplements in the
supplement industry as a whole with six
different brands. We're the only like
really e-commerce focused brand that is
um present especially in Germany and
Netherlands. Um so there we have also
this French angle of course why we are
um also focusing on on this market as
well but it doesn't also mean that
necessarily we always
um keep every country the exactly the
way we enter them. So um if of course
it's a question of market density,
compet competition density, how much of
a playground can we actually grab for
us? Um and where do we really resonate
with the consumer? And I think the US
for this year, I mean this is a very
different decision than going to a
European market which is much easier to
enter for us. um while going to the US
needs a completely different playbook
and setup. And here we also uh put way
more time into the preparation. But
there of course you see the extreme
upside in case it works and we really
get a foot into the door.
&gt;&gt; Awesome. Okay. And like if we were to
compile a cheat sheet for any
supplements brand that would like to
like that is already present for
instance in any country in Europe but
then they want to explore any new market
for them whatever that is like another
country in Europe, UK or the US. Uh what
would be like the step by step like high
level like hey explore if there is any
market what are your competitors etc etc
kind of like in this passion in this um
uh way to describe what their step by
step will look like. Yeah, I think I
mean it also of course depends a lot on
the product and how easily it is um how
easy it is to internationalize it
because yes I think first glance you
should do is for sure what's the market
potential um how and how fragmented or
like how dense is the competition
already in that market. If you see that
there is already a huge like density of
competitors doing exactly having exactly
the same product and um generating
market share there already for a couple
of years it's maybe not the easiest way
to enter not saying it's not maybe not
