 
0 to 20 seconds of any kind of energy
But that's not what I'm talking about.
Collagen, I can't use collagen, but I
I'm talking about 3 to five grams daily.
Or it might be that we don't want to go
RCTs or randomized control trials for
So if we're looking at collagen, there's
So we can look at MKA, we can look at
So, thanks for watching and I know
They adapt to the harsh environment that
They're both one and the same. And it
This is their 100% plant protein. Really
You can take a teaspoon and stir in your
a peptide. A native collagen when
a supplement, we'll try to get to it as
about clean supplements and what ones
about it from a bodybuilding background
about supplements. I get asked all the
active. If we look at a cellular aspect
actually digested and those small bits
actually work for women because again,
adapt to different situations to
adaptogen is a plant compound that has
adaptogens. These are two that I use on
adjust your thyroid hormone sensitivity,
all of the things for dietary protein,
amount of creatine that's in the muscle.
an effect in the body that we don't
and something like a normal protein
and the signaling to degrade your
and working with companies that I trust.
another one if you're going into a
antioxidative status, omega-3s are
are used to regenerate some of the
ashagandha, we can look at rodeiola.
ashagandha. So I'll take a step back and
aspects, but as a plant-based
aspects, not just muscle performance.
at seaweed and we see seaweed changes
athletes in their health. So, yes, I'm
autonomic nervous system. So, it can
basis of when do we use supplements,
basis. I'm just sharing with what I use
because again its adaptogenic response
best way I can explain it is if we look
bits of that whole collagen that are
but it also affects cortisol and how
cartilage but also to trigger a response
cartilage. We see peptides are small
cellular health, and so it's one of my
certain plants that grow in really
closer to the surface in the summer
coffee because it's just a very easy
cold part of the ocean, it has a higher
contraindication for individuals who are
cortisol receptors as well. So, it helps
cortisol responses, but it also has an
creatine and looking for Crea Pure. So
creatine. So I always talk about
dark. When that same plant comes up
different colors. When it is in a dark
different policy changes for collegiic
different stressors. So there are
drop a comment and have a question about
dropping cortisol's effect on the body
effect on cortisol. It modulates your
effect on the body. We can see that it
effect on thyroid. So, it does have a
either increases the sensitivity of your
energetics. So you think about the first
environment. So a plant in itself can
environmentally challenging conditions.
especially brain health. And we hear
everything for women. So, again, thanks
fast as we can and give you some insight
for watching and drop a comment here and
go-tos for sure. And then we get to
going for collagen. If you want muscle,
going to show Momentous because I love
good hair, you want good skin, you want
good nails, you want good joints, you're
has a list of all the most recent
has a reduced protein composition. The
help modulate some of the effects that a
highly stressed situation or you're
human stress system. So if we look at
immune system to reduce the inflammation
in front of Congress to talk about
individual body needs. It also has an
individual journey. It's an individual
individual, I don't use collagen. There
ingested has an interaction with your
inhibitor. We can look at Crea Vitalis
into making them, but I partner with
is a confusion between collagen protein
is from a metabolic as well as an
is it understands how stressed your body
it for joints and other structural
it has a direct effect on cortisol
it's a structural protein. If you want
it's an overall stress reducer because
it's in. And because it can adapt, that
it's really clean. And I say that
living a highly stressed life, it helps
me get into a parasympathetic state for
mixable. It's great. I love their
modulate that stress to reduce that
modulates estrogen for perry and
monohydrate is so important for health,
months, it becomes lighter in color and
multi-factoral
muscle protein synthesis, nerve, bone,
muscle, gut. And we see that creatine
must-haves really is an omega-3. It's
necessarily because they are third party
normally see with a pharmaceutical. The
of increasing our oxidative and
of peptides go to the target tissue and
of where to go to find more information
one company in front of me, Momentous. I
ones that I use the most from them is
onto a true westernized pharmaceutical
out of a jet lag state. With ashagandha,
overarching tired but wired feeling. So,
parasympathetic state. When I'm
people what to use in whatever country
pharmaceutical would. But again, it's an
plant-based or their unflavored whey.
plant-based or whey isolate. The other
post-menopausal women. So that means it
powder that's really mixable. Doesn't
powder. Collagen protein is not what we
protein because it's a structural
protein content and it in itself is
protein. It does not go into the
publications on creatine for the health
quantification of your dietary protein.
questions about supplements. So, if you
really appreciate the ethos that goes
really essential for brain health,
really important for women who are super
really like their products, not
reason for that is it's adapting to the
receptors or it decreases the
regulations. What I can say is you want
reset its circadian rhythm and get me
same compound has a response to our
sensitivity based on what your own
sleeping so that it can help my body
so that we look to use adaptogens to
so that you can get into more of a
some supplementation can come into play.
something like a serotonin reuptake
something like rodeiola, it has
sometimes there are holes in our diet
standing here with lots of products by
state much faster than just using
supplements. Let's talk a little bit
system within the body, brain, heart,
taste like anything. Takes about three
tell you what an adaptogen is. An
tested. They're really clean and I
that I use on the regular. And when
that occurs in the body. So we go
that shows there's efficacy for
that would be the cadre of supplements
the advocacy behind the company and
the people behind the company. I love
the regular. I use rodeiola and
their advocacy behind the scenes. We got
their protein powder. Either their
them and I agree with them because of
there's not a lot of research out there
there.
they are actually that a supplement. We
they're in because there are different
they're really good, clean products. The
think of when we're using post exercise
through creatine whenever we have fast
time what I use. I can't really tell
to look for something that you trust and
to stop degrading the cartilage. So,
traveling with jet lag, I use it to help
two kinds. We have a native collagen and
use it. So creatine is a natural thing
using any kind of thyroid medication
want to look at real food first, but
wanted to bring it up. My husband uses
we look at creatine and why we want to
we're looking at all of our individual
website, creatine for health website.
weeks to fully saturate. But we see from
where we have to use 5 g twice a day
where we need to fill and that's where
with carbohydrate to really boost the
with that tired but wired feeling by
women out of an anxiety or a depressive
women that using creatine can help bring
women's health and how there has been
you go for a protein supplement that is
you're going to have a multitude of
your body responds to cortisol. So, it's
